He says, how many damn machine guns do you have on
those B-25s? I said, well, some of them have five or
six, and some of them have two or three. He says, you
literally plowed me a trench.
We just bombed and scraped the hell out of him. But
he escaped. He said, I was ready to kill you guys.
Okay.
Well, I guess now could you kind of explain some,
maybe the hardships that you endured that we
hadn't already talked about, I guess. We talked
about the where-was. Well, the worst hardship was
no women. See, for six months we had nothing to
nurse or anything. And I'm told there was a lot of
homosexuals. homosexual activity went up there.
Now, I heard that later,
and I don't know how true it was. I wasn't aware of
it, but I wouldn't be surprised. That was the worst
hardship, was just no women, and food was
marginal. No whiskey, really, and no beer. We got a
shitload of beer in there, and I don't know, I think
the Navy got most of it. There just wasn't much to
do, much in the way of recreation. Of course, I had
no drive. I could have gone back to, in fact, some of
the drive went back and it went up to Fairbanks. Had
my ball up there, but I don't know. I don't know. Can
you kind of maybe go through a day, a normal day, up
there that, uh, just kind of go through the events
that you would, you know, take place, I guess, from
the time you got up to about the time you, from
Reveille to Tafts, I guess. Well, we wouldn't have
any Reveille without a whistle.
No
Reveille. Uh... Thank you for waiting.
Well, it's kind of hard to name a typical day
because we would be assigned, we would be briefed
and told where we were going when the fog lifted.
And then we would sit in this ready room, what they
called the ready room, which originally was a
tent. And the well walked me the tent away and they
brought in the
And we'd just sit there and play poker and bridge
gambling. And we'd go for walks, but we weren't
allowed to go very far. It had
to be in whistling distance. Then we'd go eat,
which was more of a damn chore than a pleasure
because there wasn't much to eat. Red Stan.
Oh, I tell you, we used to have raids, excursions on
the Navy. The Navy had much better
supplies than we did. And so we'd go on raids and go
and raid their vessel and get the food. Get shot at,
but nobody got hurt. You know, we went raiding.
What did you do after that? Just sat on and waited
for those things. Well, listen, we had one record
player listen to those stupid records. Judy
Garland singing. Put a little milk in her cow. Oh,
the Andrews sisters. They got awful over it. Why
don't you do right?
Like some of the men did. That was about it. They
ever... I guess, send any movies or anything, any
of the newsreels? They had movies on Adak Island.
They had, and that's where I was first stationed. I
made my first raid out of Adak, and that was good
living. Adak was nice. But on Amchitka, we
didn't have anything in the way of entertainment.
What time do you normally go to bed in the evening,
sir? I guess the...
No. We didn't, like I said, we didn't have any types
of revelry. We just had a whistle open. We could
sleep whenever we wanted to. Unless we had some
extra duty, like digging foxholes or something
like that. You know, officers were not supposed to
work. But we got hooked. We had to dig our own
foxhole. No revelry, no revelry hours. About how
many men were stationed on Chitka? Well, Chitka
had a... Maybe they got a bunch of crews up there,
heavy bombard B-24s, four-engine planes, but our
B-25s created a normal complement of seven, six or
seven
men. I don't know whether they're buried or what,
but anyhow, the... They had a total of, we had 20, 20
airplanes when we
went up there. We had about 10, I guess, when we came
back. 20 times, what did I say? 20 times 7 is 140.
Okay. All right. In all, do you consider,
They got up on those boats and left, and we blamed
the Navy for letting them get away. Of course, you
couldn't see your hands on your face, but we blamed
the Navy. The Navy blamed the Air Force because
they didn't bomb them heavy enough. Act II was a
bloodbath. Act II was a terrible bloodbath, and I
didn't participate in it except for bombing. But
that was it. Act II had Fish Hook Ridge. And those
poor old guys, they caught in hell. They had
frostbite. The guys were pretty keen. They
weren't dumb. I don't know how they happened to
lose that war. I guess they were just dumber than we
were. And we were pretty dumb. But our troops went
in. The land hit. And the command was to blame.
General Brown was commanding the troops, the
ground troops. And he took them in and dumped them
in that cold water with no rubber boots. So their
feet got wet immediately. And then the Japs let
them come in. They came in. And came in, set up their
tents, and they got all nice and situated. Then the
Japs hit them. And they pinned them down. in the
valley. They had a valley called Massacre Valley.
And it was surprising, because it was named for a
battle that the Russians had had with the Lute
Indians 100 years before. And they had massacred
the Lute Indians. Well, they had a massacre that
day. They caught our boys, and they just pinned
them down. And they got frostbite, and they lost
their toes. And they went and cut a lot of their toes
off. We finally bombed them
off from there, I think. But they suffered a lot. We
never
did. I never suffered that much. Thank God I wasn't
an infantryman, I tell you. Okay, well, is there
any, I guess, anything you might want to add to all
of this? Well, there are a lot of anecdotes that I
could add, but They don't come to mind at the
moment. When I kind of made this word count, I told
myself, I've got to chop this off.
It's going to be a book. Now, I think a lot of things,
you know, like the guy says, I think of a real clever
answer to that after you go.
No, I think that's pretty well got it. That damn
chimp car that I preserved was a miserable mess. As
I said in here, I would have deserted, but there
wasn't any place to go now.